# Object Oriented Programming
Object-oriented programming is a paradigm based on the concept of objects, which are data structures that contain data, in the form of fields, often known as attributes, and code, in the form of procedures, often known as methods. A distinguishing feature of objects is that an object's procedure can access and often modify the data fields of the object with which they are associated (objects have a notion of "this"). In class-based, meaning the objects are instances of classes, which also typically determines their type. <br>
Most of the most widely used programming languages are multi-paradigm programming languages that support object-oriented programming to a greater or lesser degree, typically in combination with imperative, procedural programming. Significant object-oriented programming languages include Python, C++, Objective-C, Smalltalk, Delphi, Java, C#, Perl, Ruby, and PHP.
#Overview
OOP attempts to provide a model based on objects. It is a modular approach, which allows the data to be applied within the stipulated programming area. It also provides the reusability feature toi develop productive logic, which means to give emphasis on data. Object-oriented programming integrates code on data using the concept of an object. An object is an abstract data type with the addition of polymorphism and inheritance.An object hasboth state (data) and behavior (code). <br>
Objects sometimes correspond to things found in the real world. For example, a graphics program may have objects such as "circle", "square", or menu". An olnine shopping system may have objects such as "shopping cart", "customer", and "product". The shopping system will support behaviors such as "place order", "make payment", and "offer discount". <br>
Objects are designed in hierarchies, commonly a class hierarchy. For example, with the shopping system, there might be high level classes such as "electronics product", "kitchen product", and "book". There may be further refinements for example under "electronic products": "CD player", "DVD player", etc. These classes anbd subclasses correspond to sets and subsets in mathematical logic. Rather than utilizing database tables and programming subroutines, the developer utlizies objects the user may be more familiar with: objects from their application domain. <br> 
Object oriented programming uses encapsulation and information hiding. Object-orientation essentially merges abstract data types with structed programming and divides systems into modular objects which own their own data and are responsible for their own behavior. This feature is known as encapsulation. With encapsulation, the data for two objects are divided so that changes to one object cannot affect the other. Note that all this relies on the various languages being used appropriately, which, of course, is never certain. Object orientation is not a software silver bullet. <br>
The object-oriented approach encourages the programmer to place data where it is not directly accessible by the rest of the system. Instead, the data is accessed by calling specially written functions, called methods, which are boundled with the data. These act as the intermmediaries for retrieving or modifying the data they control. The programming construct that combines data with a set of methods for accessing and managing that data is called an object. The practice of using subroutines to examine or modify certain kinds of data was also used in non-OOP modular programming, well before the widespread use of OOP. <br>
Designing software as modular components that support inheritance is meant to make it easy both to re-use existing components and to extend components as needed by defining new subclasses with specialized behaviors. This goal of being easy to both maintain and reuse is known in the object-oriented paradigm as the open-closed principle. A module is open if it supports extension (e.g. can easily modify behavior, add new properties, provide new values, etc). A module is closed if it has a well-defined stable interface that all other modules must use and that limits the interaction and potential errors that can be introduced into one module by changes in another.
#Fundamental Features and Concepts
Object-oriented programming that uses classes is sometimes class-based programming, while prototype-based programming does not typically use classes. As a result, a significantly different yet analogous terminology is used to define the concepts of object and instance. <br>
- Dynamic dispatch - when a method is invoked on an object, the object itself determines what gets code executed by looking up the method at runtime in a table associated with the object. This feature distinguishes an object from an abstract data type (or module).
